Before we discuss diversification strategies,
I wanna stress that if you decide to sell
a mutual fund that you own and instead buy an
index ETF fund, and if this mutual fund that you're
thinking about selling is already in your retirement account
I want you to please make sure that you can buy
an index ETF in your retirement account.
I don't want you to take money out of your retirement
account, I want you to leave it in there, okay?
Talk to an accountant if you want to on this.
Let me move on.
Separately, now that you understand the different
investment classes, meaning stocks, bonds, commodities,
real estate, and more, let's talk about what percents
of your portfolio should be in each investment class.
And please note that what I'm about to discuss
is my personal, preferred methodology
when it comes to portfolio diversification.
So please do your own homework as well
on what your diversification strategy should be
and what makes most sense for you.
This is my pick, okay?
When I used to work on Wall Street at Goldman Sachs,
our firm's investment strategists would create
what's called a model portfolio which suggests
types of stocks and sectors to invest in.
I'm gonna take this a step further.
I'm gonna have you select what risk levels
you are most comfortable with, based on your age
if you wanna account for that and other factors.
I'm gonna set up your model portfolio general guidelines
here so you can manage and set it up
using our investment portfolio management system.
Which is why I had you do an earlier exercise
on your complete personal finance dashboard
by doing exercises on stocks, bonds, ETF,
real estate investment trusts, and commodities.
Let's take a look now at 10 diversification rules
for our model portfolio construction.
Don't worry, please, if this seems like a lot for you,
like a lot of rules, I should say.
As I'm gonna make this easier for you to understand
when we do our next exercise as all 10 of these rules
that we are going to discuss are already documented
for you to read when doing exercise 24.
And they are listed here all the way to the right
on your investment portfolio management system.
So before we start with our first of the 10 rules,
please remember earlier in the course
when I gave the very basic rule of taking 100
minus your age when deciding how risky
your portfolio should be, remember that?
What we're going to do now is I'm gonna slightly change that
as I said I would, and what we're gonna do
is we're gonna add more layers of diversification
to your portfolio through our 10 rules
or general guidelines of diversification.
And you don't have to use all 10 of these rules, please.
Just think of them as general guidelines
and the point is is that we want to have
a well diversified portfolio,
so that we don't put all of our eggs in one basket.
Let's kick it off with diversification
portfolio construction rule number one.
Accounting for our age.
What we're gonna do is we're gonna do this.
We're gonna take 110 minus our age, not 100 anymore.
We're gonna take 110 minus our age
and this is how much we should invest
in more risky investments, and the rest will be invested
in less risky investments.
So if you are 30 years old, then 110 - 30 = 80.
Which means that 80% of your portfolio
can be in more risky investments
and 20% in less risky investments.
So if you're 50, then 110 - 50 = 60%.
So 60% can be in more risky investments,
and 40% can be in less risky investments.
People are living much longer now,
and I personally believe that the person who will live
to be 150 years old is alive today.
Okay, moving on.
Let's talk about diversification and portfolio construction
rule number two, Accounting for Risk.
Okay, there's two types of investment risk classes
for our model portfolio.
One risk class is simply called more risky,
and the other risk class is simply called less risky,
trying to make it easy.
The less risky class consists of investments
that are more likely going to hold their value,
like governments, bonds with a rating in the As or
above, meaning A, AA, AAA, that sort of thing,
as well as money in your bank account,
or money in large cap stock funds, or value stock funds,
meaning funds, meaning stocks that are not expensive.
Remember we talked about value versus growth.
Less risky means funds only, and not individual stocks
or corporate bonds, okay?
We're talking about funds here, meaning ETF funds.
Everything else is more risky,
including individual stocks, individual company bonds,
any bond rating well below A.
But it's gotta be B and above, I don't want you
to touch anything else,
because if it the rating is too low when it comes to bonds,
meaning that the C, D, whatever it is,
it's just too risky, remember we talked about
junk bonds in Vegas.
Anyway, so commodities and REITs are also classified
as more risky.
We're gonna keep building on this, okay?
Diversification and portfolio construction
rule number three, Accounting for Investment Size
Percent Limits.
No investments in a particular investment or ETF
can be more than 5% of our portfolio.
Sorry for saying five too loud.
The exception is cash and AAA rated government bonds.
Because a AAA rated government bond is usually
the same thing as cash.
A lot of times companies on their balance sheet
in assets they'll have cash in short-term investments.
Those short-term investments are usually in treasuries,
a lot of times they are U.S. treasuries, same thing as cash.
So, rule number four, no fee can ever be more than
an expense ratio of 0.5%, and this will encourage you
to buy ETFs instead of mutual funds, if you want to.
We talked about mutual funds earlier in the course.
This means that 0.5% or less of the value of the fund
is used to manage that fund,
meaning paying for the salaries of the employees
is managed in that fund.
Diversification and Portfolio Construction Rule Number Five,
Commodity and REIT exposure.
Exposure to commodities and REIT investments
cannot each be more than 10% than the value
of your portfolio as a group.
Diversification and Portfolio Construction Rule Number Six,
International Exposure.
Try your best to get 20% or more international exposure
in your fund.
Number seven, Sector Exposure.
Try not to have more than 20% of your investments
in one particular sector,
especially if you currently work in that sector.
Number eight, no trading allowed.
Please try your best to hold all investments
for many, many, many years.
And the only reason to sell a position is when
you're rebalancing your portfolio every couple of years,
per rule number 10, and we'll get there in a second.
Or if you change your mind on an investment
based on new information.
So before selling a position or an investment,
ask yourself this, "if I had known about this new
"piece of publicly disclosed information,
"would I have bought this investment or not?"
If the answer is no, then consider selling.
Warren Buffet always invests with the intention of being
okay if the stock market closes for a decade.
The longer the view, the wiser the intention,
and you wanna be long-term greedy.
Rule number nine, Do Your Own Research.
As we discussed in the course, please do a lot
of research on each type of investment you make,
read the prospectus, meaning the filings, or online PDF
that explains what the risks are with this investment.
Read the annual reports too, if it's a healthy
trading company, etc.
Rule number 10, Rebalance, meaning recalculate
the accounting for age every three years or so.
So for my portfolio, I'm 45 right,
although I know I don't look a day over 70.
But if I take 110 minus my age of 45, then I get 65.
So using my framework, my model portfolio should have 65%
of my investments in higher risk investments
and the rest, meaning 35% in lower risk investments.
Now, of the 65%, I can't have more than 10%
in commodities, so if I max out on picking
at least 2 commodity ETFs at a maximum of 5% each,
then there's 55% left.
Now assuming, I max out my 20% in individual stocks
at a maximum of 5% each, then I have 35% left.
And of this 35% I might buy out two higher dividend
yielding REITs that will make up 10%.
So now I have 25% left to invest in more risky investments,
so I will allocate 5% to a smaller cap index ETF fund.
5% to a certain growth ETF fund,
5% to emerging market ETF fund,
5 % to a certain sector ETF,
and 5% left over to pick certain stocks.
Say two stocks at 2 and a half percent capital each.
And every few years, we should rebalance
our model portfolio.
So in three years when I'm 48 years old, I should have
110 minus 48 meaning 62% in more risky stocks
instead of 65%.
Now since we want to preserve capital
and have our capital appreciate,
we put as much of our investments that you make,
as much as you can, you put as much as you can
into your retirement savings program,
and if applicable, you out as much as you can
into educational savings programs,
or other tax-free accounts, as much as you can,
because we want our money to grow tax-free
for many, many years.
So we only pay tax one time when we take the money out
when we have a much bigger amount.
Now since the 1920s small company stocks,
meaning riskier stocks have generated
an average annual return of 12%.
During the same period of time the larger company's
stocks have been up about 10% on average.
So in terms of bonds, during the same time period,
meaning since the 1920s, corporate bonds have generated
close to 6% return, and government bonds
that are more than one year in length have generated
close to a 5% return.
Now remember, the low interest rate over the past
couple of years is an anomaly as rates
are usually much, much higher than they are.
During the same period, meaning since the 1920s,
30-day treasury bills have generated close to a 4% return.
And you can see that higher risk investments
generate higher returns in the long run,
but they are much more volatile,
which is why as we get older, we need to decrease
the amount of risk that we have in our portfolio.
And as you know, I don't recommend mutual funds.
Rather, instead I recommend ETFs.
And as you put together your portfolio,
please know that I really care about
your capital preservation, almost more than
capital appreciation, especially the older you get,
you wanna preserve capital because it's hard
to make up for money that you lose when you're older,
obviously, okay?
I'm not gonna tell you which specific investments
to put your portfolio for your money in,
as I always want you to do your own research.
Two more things work mentioning.
Number one, never sell anything in less than one year
if it's not in a retirement account,
if your country's taxes tax investments sold within a year
are higher than taxes you must pay in stuff
you hold for more than a year.
And mutual funds do this all the time,
which kills performance when we file taxes.
Number two, I want you to keep a small amount of cash
at your bank, or in very liquid government investments
just in case you have emergency reasons to access the cash,
or you gotta pay more taxes than you thought.
I will clearly document all the aforementioned
10 Portfolio Diversification Rules when you do
the next exercise, which is called Exercise Number 24,
Diversification and Your Model Portfolio.